feat: clarify major release steps (#937)
inveniosoftware/docs-invenio-rdm: docs/maintenance/operations/release-management.md

Reviewer: Since the 2 are merged below, would merge here too:

```suggestion
- an application: the combination of an instance template, [cookiecutter-invenio-rdm](https://github.com/inveniosoftware/cookiecutter-invenio-rdm)
and the main module [invenio-app-rdm](https://github.com/inveniosoftware/invenio-app-rdm) collecting and configuring the others
```

The instance template (cookiecutter-invenio-rdm) and the application (invenio-app-rdm) are together considered the application and therefore versioned together.

To be more precise: for a new major version of invenio-app-rdm a new branch with
the same version is created for cookiecutter-invenio-rdm (e.g. invenio-app-rdm
releases major version v14.0.0, a new branch v14.0 is created for
cookiecutter-invenio-rdm. This branch is used when `invenio-cli init -c v14.0`
is used to init a new InvenioRDM instance)

> A new major version of invenio-app-rdm is released once a year. see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new major version of invenio-app-rdm is released once a year. See the
```

> [maintenance-policy](../../releases/maintenance-policy.md). The development is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[maintenance-policy](../../releases/maintenance-policy.md). Development is
```

done on betaXX.devXX tags on master. Since invenio-app-rdm represents the

> product InvenioRDM it uses a slightly different versioning schema. It still

Reviewer: ```suggestion
product InvenioRDM it uses a slightly different versioning schema than other modules. It still
```

> follows the semver rules of versioning, but not on he major versions but on the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
follows the semver rules of versioning, but not on the major versions
```
this sentence is difficult to understand with the double `but`, can you please rephrase it?

beta versions. This means: releasing a new major version (e.g. v14.0) starts on

> the master branch the tagging of beta versions (e.g. v15.0.0b0.dev0). The new

Reviewer 2: What do you mean with `the master branch the tagging of beta versions`?

patch and minor releases of the currently supported major version are done on
the `maint-*` branch (e.g. maint-v14.x)

The application locks each dependent module to their major-level versions so that patches can be distributed without breaking compatibility.

### Module versioning

Each module (e.g. invenio-rdm-records, invenio-records, ...) is versioned independently. Each module MUST follow semantic versioning, so that the application can lock the module version to the major-level release.

### Module releases

Doing a new major release of a module starts a major release chain. A module

> supports only 1 major version of another module. This means doing a major break

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
supports only 1 major version of another module. This means doing a major release
```

in a low level package as `invenio-db` starts a long major release chain up to
invenio-app-rdm.

> TODO: picture of the graph?

Reviewer 2: Not sure that a picture is needed here.

## Product Release

The product is InvenioRDM. The package invenio-app-rdm represents the product
and its versioning represents the product major version. Some packages of
inveniosoftware are tightly coupled with InvenioRDM. Those packages will get a
new major version and a new `maint-vX.0` branch in the moment the feature freeze
will take place.

The product release cycle starts with the release of the major version. This

> means that from the date of the major version the new development cycly starts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
means that from the date of the major version a new development cycle starts.
```

> The release should take place in the first 2 weeks in July. The feature freeze

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A major release normally takes place in July. The features freeze
```

> in the first two weeks of June. The considering for feature freeze PR's deadline
> takes place in the first weeks of April.

Reviewer 2: The last sentence is not very clear to me. Could you please clarify what is happening n April?
```suggestion
in June. The considering for feature freeze PR's deadline takes place in the first weeks of April.
```

With the feature freeze maintenance branches are created in the modules listed here:

- invenio-vocabularies [GitHub](https://github.com/inveniosoftware/invenio-vocabularies)
- invenio-requests [GitHub](https://github.com/inveniosoftware/invenio-requests)
- invenio-administration [GitHub](https://github.com/inveniosoftware/invenio-administration)
- invenio-communities [GitHub](https://github.com/inveniosoftware/invenio-communities)
- invenio-rdm-records [GitHub](https://github.com/inveniosoftware/invenio-rdm-records)
- invenio-app-rdm [GitHub](https://github.com/inveniosoftware/invenio-app-rdm)
- cookiecutter-invenio-rdm [GitHub](https://github.com/inveniosoftware/cookiecutter-invenio-rdm)

> The master branch will get a new major release. Yes it could be that the
> master branch will get a major version without any real changes on the master
> branch and therefor not follow semver in some points. But for the product
> InvenioRDM and it's further development it is easier to do it that way. It
> enables to merge breaking changes directly after the feature freeze and not
> affecting the release of the product.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The master branch will get a new major release, even without significant changes (in this case, semver is not strictly followed). This approach allows merging unrelated breaking changes after the features freeze, without affecting an ongoing release.
```

git push upstream vX.Y.Z
```

## Maintenance workflow

> Bugfixes and features are developed against the master branch and merged into
> that branch first. Then the bugfix or feature is backported to the `maint-vX.Y`
> branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bugfixes and features are developed from and merged into the master branch. Then, they are backported to the `maint-vX.Y` branch.
```
